# DataAnalysis-StatisticalModeling-NZInjuryStats

## Introduction
Injuries bring an array of both social and economic implications. For this very reason, the Ministry of Health (MOH) regards injuries as a prominent event. Current statistics by Stats NZ have shown an increase in non-fatal injuries in the period 2012-2019 (Stats NZ, 2020). As a government agency, the MOH needs to closely manage this data, to effectively manage its resources. They need to be able to analyze current trends in the data and be able to draw insight and inferences. Alongside this, they need to be able to predict using various variables to better understand what needs to be done.

## Dataset 
The data set we have chosen to analyze shows the number of serious both fatal and non-fatal injuries in New Zealand annually and has indicators to show trends in the rate of the outcomes from these injuries. An injury is considered serious non-fatal when the person injured has a 6.9% chance to be fatal, an injury is considered serious if the person has been badly injured such as fracture, severe cut, or if the person has to remain in the hospital for an extended amount of time if the person ends up dying it is considered fatal.

## Model
Since the goal was to predict the outcome of injuries based on a range of indicators, the decision was made to use a predictive analysis model, which predicts outcomes using the KNN regression algorithm. This was because it can look at the features of each injury case and figure out which ones are closest in similarity and make predictions on new data by comparing the new data to the model (Lateef, 2020). This means it is good for providing accurate predictions. This could be considered quite important when it comes to injury statistics as these predictions could be used to see where improvements are needed with injury responses.

## Framework
The analytical approach to solve the issue of descriptive analysis, inference, and predictive modeling is based on a framework produced by Harvard Data Science Department (Keller et al., 2020). The first step in this framework was to effectively understand the data science issue. This helped with understanding what exactly needed to be achieved. The following step was the data discovery stage. The data used in this case study was retrieved from the Stats NZ website. The next step was Data Wrangling. In this step, the data set was transformed by various preprocessing procedures, to ensure its suitability for modeling. The next stage was Statistical modeling and analyses. This stage used both inferential and descriptive statistical methods. In this stage, the data was visualized into readable graphs, from which you can draw an inference. From this, the data was fed into the KNN model to produce predictions. The final stage was to summarize the presentation and the results. This approach proved to be successful in effective application on both descriptive and inferential statistical methods.
